University News
Carolina ranks 9th nationally for research
With a $190 million increase in research activity, the University is now among the top 10 U.S. research institutions.
By UNC Research, Wednesday, December 11th, 2024
Carolina moved up in the 2024 National Science Foundation's Higher Education and Research Development Survey, now ranking as the No. 9 largest overall research university. (Jon Gardiner/UNC-Chapel Hill)
Print Friendly
Research spending at Carolina has topped $1.55 billion, fueling the state’s economy, powering new discoveries, driving innovation and creating a better quality of life for people in North Carolina and beyond. This is the eighth year in a row the University’s research activity totaled over $1 billion, and research expenditures increased across all of Carolina’s funding sources.
That increase led to Carolina’s No. 9 ranking in the 2024 National Science Foundation’s Higher Education and Research Development Survey . Moving up from last year’s No. 12 ranking, the University is now among the top 10 of all U.S. research institutions.
“This achievement translates to greater impact for our state, from providing tailored health care treatments, to improving our understanding of the environment to building more resilient communities,” says Chancellor Lee H. Roberts. “The growth of our research enterprise and the expertise of our faculty means that Carolina will continue solving our most critical challenges.”
The NSF survey collects information on research and development expenditures by field of study and source of funds. The survey evaluates over 900 institutions and provides the main source of data on R&D expenditures by U.S. higher education institutions.
Here’s a look at some key facts and figures for Carolina:
7th largest public research university
9th largest overall research university (up from 12th)
$1.55 billion in annual research activity (up from $1.36 billion)
34th for industry-sponsored R&D among U.S. private and public institutions (up from 36th)
5th for health sciences research (up from 7th)
3rd for social sciences research (up from 4th)
Among all ranked universities, 16 of the top 30 were public, a clear indication of the impact that state schools have on the economy, health, and safety of their communities. UNC-Chapel Hill is now the top institution in the state in research activity, exemplifying the University’s values of serving North Carolina with unwavering commitment to being one of the world’s great research institutions. This research activity provides tangible support for students and equips them with life-changing experiences that increase their competitiveness for jobs and enrich North Carolina’s workforce.
“This significant milestone is a testament to the power of Carolina’s research enterprise,” says Penny Gordon-Larsen, vice chancellor for research. “We are not only advancing knowledge but also improving lives, driving innovation and strengthening our economy. Breaking back into the top 10 of all U.S. institutions is a testament to the hard work and ingenuity of our faculty, staff and students.”
