Academics
Sports broadcaster says ‘yes’ to all
From “Sports Xtra” to the Olympics, “I am well prepared wherever I go because of Carolina,” Kyle Lobenhofer says.
Story by Caroline Daly, Video by Johnny Andrews, University Communications, Monday, December 9th, 2024
Play Video
Print Friendly
Press play above to watch the video
Like everyone else at his elementary school in Thousand Oaks, California, Kyle Lobenhofer was a Los Angeles Dodgers fan. He still remembers the voice of iconic broadcaster Vin Scully announcing those baseball games. “I loved hearing him and wanted to do what he did,” he said.
Later, after speaking with Los Angeles Kings commentator Bob Miller for a school project, Lobenhofer grew even more determined to become a sports broadcaster, too.
Embracing every opportunity
When Lobenhofer came to Carolina, he quickly discovered ways to cultivate his passion for sports broadcasting at UNC Hussman School of Journalism and Media.
In his first day in MEJO 101, he found out about “Sports Xtra” from guest speaker Charlie Tuggle, John H. Stembler Jr. Distinguished Professor.
“He said, ‘student-run sports show,’ and my ears perked up,” said Lobenhofer.
Lobenhofer started as a volunteer reporter, filming events and creating highlight videos. When he enrolled in the “Sports Xtra” class, he became the director, overseeing the control room and making calls about camera switches and graphics shown during broadcasts.
The class also allowed Lobenhofer to pursue his passion to be on camera. He served as the women’s tennis analyst when the team won their first NCAA national championship, providing highlights of their matches on regular broadcasts.
In 2023, he took on his largest role yet — executive producer. In the role, he oversaw all aspects of the show: assigning reporters, creating schedules, planning show content and mentoring new staff.
Meet our winter graduates.
“My favorite part is the hands-on environment. It’s one thing to sit in a lecture and learn about broadcasting, but to learn by doing is important,” said Lobenhofer.
In his sophomore year, Lobenhofer became a production assistant with GoHeels Productions. There he covered over 100 Carolina games, working either in camera operation, replay operation or technical director roles. Several broadcasts he’s worked on have aired on the ACC Network Extra or the ESPN app. Lobenhofer says the fast-paced nature of athletics gave him the additional experience of live event directing.
“With a studio show, you can plan. With a sporting event, you have no idea what will happen,” said Lobenhofer. “That’s the joy of sports, right? You don’t know what’s going to happen.”
As he gained more experience, Lobenhofer found that his passion for working in front of the camera was shifting to working behind the scenes. “I am more in my element when I am directing or producing. It’s how my brain works. It is a puzzle. I like to think of it as, ‘OK, how am I going to get from here to here?’” said Lobenhofer. “There’s a level of excitement to put the pieces together for it to go right.”
An Olympic-sized opportunity
This summer, Lobenhofer covered the 2024 Paris Olympics as part of a partnership with UNC Hussman. As a venue reporter, Lobenhofer interviewed athletes and posted flash quotes and press conference highlights on the Olympic Broadcasting Services’ website for worldwide media to access.
That opportunity confirmed how Carolina provided Lobenhofer enough experience to feel prepared wherever he went next.
“When I walked through the swim venue, I thought, ‘This feels just like covering a Carolina sporting event. This feels normal.’ I had to remind myself I was covering the Olympics,” said Lobenhofer. “I am well prepared wherever I go because of Carolina.”
After graduation, Lobenhofer hopes to work for a sports team or television network in broadcast production.
“I came into Carolina and got involved in every way possible,” said Lobenhofer. “That’s always been my mentality — to take the opportunities because you never know where they are going to lead.”
