Appalachian State University
Boone, NC
Located in North Carolina’s beautiful Blue Ridge Mountains, Appalachian State University prepares students to lead purposeful lives as global citizens who understand and fulfill their responsibilities to create a sustainable future.
East Carolina University
Greenville, NC
East Carolina University, located in Greenville, is the fourth largest university in North Carolina and the only one in the state with schools of medicine, dentistry, and engineering. The university is also known for being the top producer of medical school graduates who practice in North Carolina.
Elizabeth City State University
Elizabeth City, NC
Nestled in northeastern North Carolina, Elizabeth City State University is the most affordable institution in the UNC System and offers the only four-year degree program in aviation science in the state.
Fayetteville State University
Fayetteville, NC
Fayetteville State University is a public historically black university in Fayetteville and is known for its affordability and accessibility for all North Carolinians. Founded in 1867, it is the second-oldest public institution in the state.
North Carolina A&T State University
Greensboro, NC
The largest historically black university in the nation, NC A&T is proud of its academic leadership in science and engineering. Based in Greensboro, the land grant doctoral university boasts more than 70,000 graduates who work everywhere from Silicon Valley to the halls of Congress to farms across North Carolina.
North Carolina Central University
Durham, NC
North Carolina Central University, a historically black university in the heart of Durham, offers programs in the sciences, education, law, business, nursing, and the arts, and boasts two research centers in biotechnology and biomanufacturing.
North Carolina School of Science and Mathematics
Durham, NC
North Carolina State University
Raleigh, NC
Located in North Carolina’s state capital, NC State University is the largest university in the Carolinas and a world-renowned research powerhouse offering exceptional programs including engineering, agriculture, life sciences, textiles, and veterinary medicine.
UNC Asheville
Asheville, NC
A liberal arts university located in the thriving mountain town of Asheville, UNC Asheville offers small classes, award-winning faculty, and a nationally acclaimed undergraduate research program that fosters connections between curiosity and critical thinking.
UNC-Chapel Hill
Chapel Hill, NC
As the nation’s first public university, UNC-Chapel Hill is a leading global public research university with a legacy of nationally recognized teaching, groundbreaking research, and dedication to public service.
UNC Charlotte
Charlotte, NC
Located in North Carolina’s largest city, UNC Charlotte offers competitive undergraduate, graduate, and doctoral programs, with proximity to internships, research opportunities, and other career-launching activities.
UNC Greensboro
Greensboro, NC
UNC Greensboro is a minority-serving institution in Greensboro, serving nearly 18,000 students. The university offers hundreds of degree programs and certificates both on-campus and online and is highly ranked nationally for student success and economic mobility.
UNC Pembroke
Pembroke, NC
Located on 281 acres in southeastern North Carolina, UNC Pembroke is one of the most diverse campuses in the South, and the nation’s only four-year public institution founded by American Indians.
UNC School of the Arts
Winston-Salem, NC
The UNC School of the Arts is a top-ranked performing arts, visual arts, and filmmaking conservatory preparing high school, undergraduate, and graduate students for professional careers in dance companies, top orchestras, Broadway, and more.
UNC Wilmington
Wilmington, NC
With a world-class faculty, nationally ranked programs, and a unique coastal setting, UNC Wilmington offers a powerful academic experience and a diverse, driven, creative community.
Western Carolina University
Cullowhee, NC
Western Carolina University’s 600-acre mountain campus is surrounded by one of the most biodiverse regions in the state, providing students with unparalleled research and access to a wide variety of degree programs.
Winston-Salem State University
Winston-Salem, NC
Winston-Salem State University is a historically black public university offering a rich curriculum rooted in liberal arts education and providing graduates with the skills and knowledge needed to develop creative solutions to complex problems.
