Old Dominion University, Norfolk, VA (2019 - Present)
My main research areas are information retrieval, data science and machine learning.
Currently I work with eye tracking for neurophysiological disease and disorder detection and also
                  on multi-user eye tracking. The current research includes aspects of computer vision and machine learning
                  for successfull eye trackig, distributed systems for data collection and transmission and Information
                  retrieval and data mining for generating useful information.
BSc in Engineering (Computer Science and Engineering)
University of Moratuwa, Sri Lanka (2014 - 2018)
During the Bachelor's degree, I followed Integrated Computer Engineering (ICE) program, which provided
                  knowledge on embedded system and computer hardware development in addition to core computer science
                  and Engineering knowledge areas. In addition, I took courses in Computer Networks, Machine learning, Data mining,
                  Information retrieval, Robotics and Comuter Vision to broaden knowledge.
My final year research and development project was based on Data mining and Machine learning to provide
                  insights for improving quality of education in Sri Lanka.
Advanced Diploma in Management Accounting
Chartered Institute of Management Accountants (UK)
Through the professional qualification program, I was able to gather knowledge and skills in the
                  field of Management Accouting and Decision Making. The program includes knowledge areas of
                  Performance, Enterprise and Financial management utilizing knowledge of Management accouting, Financial Accouting,
                  Business law and Economics.
Experience
Old Dominion University, Norfolk, VA (08/2019 - Present)
Research on multi-user eye-tracking, multi-sensory
                      information retrieval for human-computer interaction, and
                      behavioral analysis.
Research on scalable appearance-based gaze/eye tracking
                      in the wild.
Conducted sessions on Python, Embedded programming, and
                      Data science for Student ThinSat Summer Camp.
Performed teaching assistant duties for Data structures
                      and algorithms, Discrete structures, and Cryptography for
                      computer security.
Research Intern
Los Alamos National Laboratory, Los Alamos, NM (05/2021 - 08/2021)
Designed and developed a toolset for the Memento Protocol(IET
                      RFC 7089) compliance testing and reporting.
Implemented improvements to enable toolset and service
                      accessibility to public and private web archives.
Junior Consultant
University of Moratuwa, Sri Lanka (01/2019 - 08/2019)
Planned, coordinated, conducted and evaluated Computer
                      Networks, Software Engineering, Industrial Computer Engineering,
                      and Image processing practical sessions for undergraduates.
Mentoring and Supervising undergraduate software engineering projects.
Visiting Instructor
University of Moratuwa, Sri Lanka (08/2018 - 12/2018)
Conducted and evaluated practical sessions for Computer
                       Networks, and Industrial Computer Engineering.
Associate Software Engineer
Wavenet International (Pvt) Ltd, Colombo, Sri Lanka (01/2018 - 08/2018)
Designed, developed and optimized databases for high
                      throughput applications using MySQL cluster.
Developed plugins and plugin support for data warehousing
                      and data analytics for existing telecommunication products.
Trainee Software Engineer
Wavenet International (Pvt) Ltd, Colombo, Sri Lanka (06/2017 - 12/2017)
Developed high available and throughput applications
                      using Erlang, Mnesia and MySQL cluster for telecommunication
                      service providers.
Developed plugins for company product integrations and
                      end-user applications.
MGaze - Multi User Gaze Interactions
2019/2020
Researching and Developing systems, algorithms and software for
              multi-user eye tracking for analytics in immersive environments.
Python, JavaScript, OpenCV, TensorFlow, TensorFlowJS
Memento Validator
2021 - Present
Designed an developed a new toolset for testing the Memento standard (IET RFC 7089) compliance of resources capable of testing through multiple interfaces.
Python, Memento Protocol
