Enhanced visualization capacity by implementing charts
Improved Decisions Modules compatibility with V9 for customers upgrading from V8.
Natively implemented check-in process to improve storing the no-code projects into repos.
Improved incorrect ligatures in the platform in order to support foreign languages.
Technologies used: ReactTS, TypeScript, JavaScript (ES6+), C#, .Net Core, HTML5, CSS, MSSQL, POSTGRES, Gitea
Software Engineer
Hampton, VA
March 2022 - December 2023
Orchestrated version control (Git) across all agency web apps in the local network, streamlining team collaboration.
Engineered a charter license purchase system, automating the antiquated paper-based process and reducing processing time from 21 days to just 30 minutes.
Implemented a barcode-driven inventory tracking system for 3000 unique items, streamlining operations and increasing visibility.
Crafted a digital FOIA Tracking System, systemizing outdated paper-based processes and achieving 90% efficiency and accuracy gains.
Technologies used: TypeScript, JavaScript (ES6+), Php, HTML5, CSS(Flexbox, Grid), Linux, MySQL, Apache HTTP Server, Git
Graduate Research Assistant
Norfolk, VA
January 2021 - March 2022
Explored Text Mining and Natural Language Processing. Built a meta-data extracting framework and developed an Electronic Thesis & Dissertations repository with 500K fulltext articles. I used python, RestApi, OAI-PMH, MySql extensively for my research work.
Developed TransParsCit - a Transformer based citation parser for Master's thesis
Engineered accessible Chrome Extensions for visually impaired users with JavaScript, Apps Script, HTML, and CSS.
Graduate Teaching Assistant
Norfolk, VA
January 2020 - March 2022
Grade weekly assignments on CS355 and assist students with their web projects on the Internet Programming course (CS312).
Software Developer
Dhaka Office, Bangladesh
May 2017 - December 2019
Integrated Google Map JavaScript API with the web project which helps to find boats from the locations of multiple different time zones.
Collaborated with the marketing team to implement SEO technique that placed the website on the 1st page from the 17th page in Google search from Mallorca.
Expedited our development following Continuous Integration/Continuous Delivery and clipped the production errors by 95% by continuous code reviews.
Built the project with a mobile-first approach and developed PWA that saved millions on investing resources to develop projects in the new platforms.
Slashed functional bugs 90% by implementing unit tests on the REST API backend.
Technologies used: JavaScript, JQuery, HTML5, CSS(Flexbox, Grid), Sass, C#, .Net Core, SQL Server, Azure, CI/CD, Git, BEM, REST API, Unit Test, Jmeter(Load Test)
Voluntary Works
MS Student Representative of CS Department
College of Science, ODU
Norfolk, Virginia
October 2020 - Till Date
Voice to the graduate students of CS department and bring up the issues to the Dean of College of Science.
Marketing Manager
Norfolk, Virginia
May 2020 - Till Date
Prepare events, create flyers, publicise events and news about the deparment. Collaborate with other society members and maintain society social media.
Instructor
Student ThinSat Research Summer(STRS) Camp
Norfolk, Virginia
August 2020
Helped the lead instructor to take the class online and evaluate answers of the students on different activities.
Vice Precident
