Please SAVE THE DATE for the 2025 Minerva Meeting & Program Review. At this annual event, Minerva grant awardees share research findings with defense policy makers, military operations personnel, and other academics interested in national security.
Nov. 13, 2024
New Minerva-funded research explores the ethical and regulatory challenges of enhancing warfighters' biological, physiological, and cognitive capacities.
Oct. 11, 2024
The Office of the Secretary of Defense (OSD) is interested in receiving proposals for the Minerva Research Initiative, a university-led defense social science program seeking fundamental understanding of the social and cultural forces shaping U.S. strategic interests globally.
Sept. 23, 2024
The Department of Defense and the U.S. Institute of Peace today announced fellowship awards to 19 graduate students to research questions in the fields of conflict management and peacebuilding.
Sept. 11, 2024
"How Russia employs ‘hard soft power’ to influence overseas media and sow dissent and fear among foreign populations"
Minerva-funded researchers, Catherine Luther and Brandon Prins highlight a new form of public diplomacy called "hard soft power," which combines traditional soft power (influence through cultural appeal) with subtle threats to create fear and division among foreign populations in their latest article.
Aug. 20, 2024
The Department of Defense today announced $46.8 million in grants to 19 university-based faculty teams under its Minerva Research Initiative. These three- to five-year awards support basic research in social and behavioral sciences on topics relevant to U.S. national security.
Aug. 8, 2024
The Department of Defense today announced the selection of a team of United States and United Kingdom academic researchers to investigate the growing threat that malign social influence campaigns pose to democracies.
July 26, 2024
Mia Bloom's new Minerva-funded publication, "Gender Bender Narratives: Radicalizing Effects of Disinformation That Threatens Gender-Normative Views", explores the role of gender in extremist and terrorist narratives, examining how gender dynamics influence recruitment, propaganda, and the operational strategies of these groups.
June 12, 2024
Minerva-funded researchers received “Best Paper Runner Up”  at the 2024 Annual Modeling and Simulation Conference
Minerva funded researchers, Jeongkeun Shin, L. Richard Carley, and Kathleen M. Carley received “Best Paper Runner Up”  at the 2024 Annual Modeling and Simulation Conference (ANNSIM’24) which is an annual conference that covers state-of-the-art developments in Modeling & Simulation (M&S).
May 8, 2024
