Visiting
Where do I find information about visiting UNC-Chapel Hill?
The Visitors Center website contains information about historical tours, traveling to campus and parking. The campus map also has information about transit, ADA accessibility points and construction projects.
Contacting Carolina
Where do I mail inquiries?
To send mail to a specific person, please include this information:
Individual’s name
The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill
Department/Office name
Chapel Hill, NC 27599-four-digit campus box number
What is the phone number?
For general phone inquiries and campus directory assistance, call 919-962-2211.
How do I reach a department via email?
To find a department’s email address, please check:
search engine
How do I contact an individual on campus address?
Visit the UNC-Chapel Hill online campus directory . You can search the campus-wide database or limit your search to faculty, staff or students. Campus directory assistance is also available at 919-962-2211.
Applying to Carolina
If you want to apply to Carolina as either an undergraduate or graduate student, learn about costs of attendance or find financial aid resources, please visit our Admissions and Aid page.
Athletics
Find the latest scores, schedules, and information about Carolina varsity sports at the athletics website . For information on autographs and camps, please contact the offices of individual sports listed in the athletic department directory .
The Life at Carolina section of this site contains information about intramural sports, sports club and Campus Recreation .
Course catalog information
The Office of the Registrar offers a directory of classes, links to course descriptions in the University Catalog and information on honors courses, online offerings and more.
Printed bulletins are sold by the University’s Student Stores . The department listing page contains links to University academic departments and schools, and those pages may contain course information. The Summer School website also contains course information.
Enrollment facts and figures
The Office of Institutional Research and Assessment reports facts and statistics about the University’s enrollment.
Employment opportunities
See Employment Opportunities for information on faculty positions, professional non-faculty positions, staff positions and temporary staffing.
Help with computers, internet or email
Contact Carolina’s ITS Service Desk or call 919-962-HELP (4357).
Suggesting website content
What is your Carolina story? We want to know what makes Carolina special to you. We’d love to hear about outstanding Tar Heels or the exciting work they are doing on campus, across North Carolina and around the world. Let us know by contacting the content development team in University Communications at thewell@unc.edu .
Submitting website feedback
If you have website feedback, please email thewell@unc.edu .
If you are having technical issues with the website, please contact the ITS Service Desk .
Using Carolina logos and symbols
For information on the use of Carolina’s logos and symbols, check with the Trademarks and Licensing Office .
Where to buy Carolina gear
Student Stores offers clothing and many other items.
