Preparing global leaders
Scroll for More
UNC-Chapel Hill is preparing students to be tomorrow’s global problem-solvers through education, research and service.
Carolina’s Global Guarantee ensures every student has access to a global education. Through study abroad , COIL , language and area studies , global curricula, the Diplomacy Initiative and more, Carolina students are gaining the knowledge and skills to succeed in a globally competitive workforce.
Carolina’s globally connected researchers are making breakthrough discoveries that benefit North Carolina and the world.
The University has been named a Fulbright “ top producing institution ” for 14 of the past 15 years, and ranks 9th among U.S. institutions in study abroad participation .
Earlier this month, three Tar Heels — Jasper Schutt ’25, Fridah Mbwaya ’22 and Sanjeev Musuvathy ’23 — received prestigious Schwarzman scholarships , which fully fund a master’s degree in global affairs at Beijing’s Tsinghua University. In December, Pratyush Seshadri ’25 was awarded a Marshall scholarship and will continue his studies of economics at University of Oxford.
Keep scrolling to learn more about Carolina’s unwavering commitment to excellence as one of the world’s great research universities.
by the numbers
Display Previous Slide of Statistics Carousel
Display Next Slide of Statistics Carousel
$57M in annual grants for the Institute for Global Health and Infectious Diseases (2024)
No. 9 in U.S. in study abroad participation ( Open Doors Report )
No. 31 among global universities (ShanghaiRanking Consultancy)
54 Rhodes scholars since the program began in 1902
30+ alumni have served as U.S. ambassadors
105+ papers published by trainees at the Office of Global Health Training and Fellowships
25 different languages offered to Carolina students, ranging from Chinese to Russian to Yucatec Maya
3,000+ international students from more than 100 countries
30 students will join new bachelor's program in Community and Global Public Health in fall 2025
Global Heels
