Print Friendly
The UNC Board of Governors appointed Ritch Allison ’89, ’95 (MBA) of Chapel Hill on Jan. 30 to serve on the UNC-Chapel Hill Board of Trustees. He fills the opening left by Dave Boliek, who has been elected North Carolina state auditor. Allison’s term is effective immediately.
The 15-member board serves to promote the sound development of the University, help it perform at a high level of excellence, serve the people of North Carolina and advise the UNC System Board of Governors and Chancellor Lee H. Roberts about the University’s management.
“As someone who is so deeply passionate about Carolina, I am humbled and honored to have this opportunity to continue to give back to the University,” said Allison. “As our nation’s first public university, Carolina has a long history of excellence. I am excited to work with the board and with Chancellor Roberts to serve the people of our state and the country through outstanding teaching, research and public service.”
Allison currently serves on the boards for Kenvue Inc. and Starbucks Corporation. He served as CEO of Domino’s Pizza Inc., the largest pizza company in the world, from 2018 until 2022. Allison joined Domino’s International in 2011 as executive vice president and then served as president of Domino’s International from 2014 to 2018. During the period that Allison led the international division and served as CEO, Domino’s expanded by more than 20 countries and grew by more than 8,000 stores. Before joining Domino’s, Allison worked at Bain & Company Inc. for more than 13 years, serving as a partner from 2004 to 2010 and as co-leader of Bain’s restaurant practice.
During his time at Carolina, Allison was named a Dean’s Scholar and was a recipient of UNC Kenan-Flagler Business School’s Norman Block Award. He is a lifetime member of Carolina Alumni and is active in The Rams Club. He served on the board of UNC Kenan-Flagler from 2014-25 and as board chair from 2023-25.
In 2017, Allison and his wife, Susan ’89, established the Richard and Susan Allison Assured Admit Scholarship Fund for UNC Kenan-Flagler, which supports a four-year scholarship for four assured admission students to the undergraduate business program. Both first-generation college graduates, the two also established the Allison Mentorship Program, which provides professional development and application support for students who are interested in a business major or minor.
They are proud parents of two Carolina graduates, Jake ’18, ’19 (MAC) and Emily ’20.
