Become a friend
Your OneCard is your library card
Your University I.D. card, known as your OneCard, also serves as your library card. If you are a member of the General Alumni Association or the Friends of the Library , a library card is a membership benefit. North Carolina residents may buy a borrower’s card for $25 annually. Learn more about library cards.
Get help from a librarian
Expert librarians are available in person, by phone, by text and by online chat. Contact the libraries or find a librarian by specialty .
Find out when a library is open
Different libraries have different hours of operation. Check library hours .
Learn web design, Photoshop and more in free workshops
Check out the dozens of free classes on a variety of subjects through SkillfUL Tech at the Undergraduate Library .
Create with 3-D printers, scanners, electronics and more
The Kenan Science Library Makerspace offers all of these resources for students and faculty.
History lives at Wilson Library
From ancient clay tablets, to the University’s founding documents, to Dolly Parton’s first recording and Andy Griffith’s guitar, you can find it at the Wilson Special Collections Library , along with exhibits and special events.
Become a friend
Friends of the Library enrich the experience of every student and instructor at Carolina. Anyone who makes a gift to the Library is a Friend of the Library. Benefits include a library card (minimum $25 annually), a subscription to the Windows newsletter, and invitations to Library events and exhibitions. Become a Friend today.
Check out the library
Let Carolina’s libraries be your starting point for learning and discovery. With convenient locations, thousands of online subscriptions, one-of-a-kind historical documents, cutting-edge technologies, plus the expertise to help you put it all together, the libraries have just what you need to succeed.
1strecording by country music icon Dolly Parton in the Southern Folklife Collection
Dozensof free classes to learn web design, Photoshop and more
43D printers, plus scanners, electronics and classes
