University News
UNC Health, Duke Health partner on new children’s hospital
NC Children’s will be North Carolina’s first freestanding hospital dedicated to caring for kids.
By UNC Health and Duke Health, Tuesday, January 28th, 2025
The comprehensive children’s health campus will be located at a yet-to-be identified site in the Triangle and will include a robust research and education enterprise backed by the medical schools of both universities. (UNC Health)
Print Friendly
UNC Health and Duke Health, two of the world’s top academic health systems, are uniting to create a new children’s health system in North Carolina, featuring the state’s first freestanding hospital dedicated to caring for kids.
The two institutions filed articles of incorporation Jan. 28 with the state of North Carolina to establish NC Children’s , a private, tax-exempt 501(c)(3) organization. Plans for NC Children’s feature a 500-bed children’s hospital, a children’s outpatient care center and a children’s behavioral health center.
A freestanding children’s hospital in North Carolina has been a decade-long goal for both institutions. An initial $320 million investment into NC Children’s made by the state of North Carolina in early 2024 advanced discussions for a collaboration between both entities.
The comprehensive children’s health campus will be located at a yet-to-be identified site in the Triangle and will include a robust research and education enterprise backed by the medical schools of both universities.
The partnership aims to provide a higher volume of highly specialized pediatric care, enabling families from across the state to remain in North Carolina when seeking complex care.
Dr. Wesley Burks (left), CEO of UNC Health and dean of the UNC School of Medicine, and Dr. Craig Albanese, CEO of Duke University Health System, at the announcement of NC Children’s Jan. 28. (UNC Health)
“This is an unprecedented partnership between UNC Health and Duke Health, aimed at elevating the care that’s available for all children in North Carolina,” said Dr. Wesley Burks, CEO of UNC Health and dean of the UNC School of Medicine. “I’m delighted to work with our colleagues at Duke to create something that will make all North Carolinians proud and change lives for generations to come.”
“Children are the heart of our future, and families across North Carolina deserve access to the most comprehensive, highest quality care for their children,” said Dr. Craig Albanese, CEO of Duke University Health System. “This is a tremendous and unique opportunity to work together to reimagine how we deliver life-changing care to our region’s most vulnerable and we are grateful for the support of our state’s legislature.”
“This dedicated children’s hospital will reflect our commitment to providing best possible care for children – not only now but for generations to come,” said Dr. Mary E. Klotman, executive vice president for Health Affairs for Duke University, chief academic officer of Duke Health and dean of Duke University School of Medicine.
“It will foster groundbreaking pediatric research and first-class education and training for health care professionals,” Klotman said. “By uniting our institutions and disciplines, we can give children the healthy lives they deserve, achieve remarkable breakthroughs and nurture the future leaders of health care.”
The partnership between health systems will allow each of the clinical teams to expand their existing children’s clinical programs and research portfolios. The combined organization will create a destination for top pediatric subspecialists, researchers, residents and fellows.
“There is a great deal of mutual respect between our institutions, and we both want the same thing for the children of North Carolina — the best care, close to home,” Burks said.
The partners plan to break ground together on the new NC Children’s campus by 2027, with construction of the campus expected to take approximately six years.
NC Children’s facts
Campus: NC Children’s will include 100+ acre campus in the Triangle, anchored by a 500-bed hospital along with an ambulatory surgical center, medical office building and behavioral health hospital. The campus will include play areas and rehabilitation facilities, translational research capabilities with a dedicated innovation/collaboration zone and a mixed-use infrastructure including the potential for hotels, retail, dining, etc.
Services: UNC Health and Duke University Health System will transfer all pediatric-related clinical services, programs and operations to NC Children’s.
Pediatric research and education: Pediatric research and education functions will remain with the UNC School of Medicine and Duke School of Medicine for the foreseeable future, although they may be conducted at NC Children’s once operational, particularly clinical teaching and research.
Affiliations: NC Children’s will have perpetual academic affiliations with the Duke and UNC schools of medicine, serving as both organizations’ pediatric teaching hospital.
Practice model: NC Children’s will develop a practice model for providers from both Duke and Carolina, allowing them to retain their existing academic appointments. NC Children’s will have an open medical staff, meaning that qualified providers may apply for privileges, even if they are not affiliated with either school.
Timeline: The hospital is expected to open in the early 2030s. Other core services such as the children’s behavioral health hospital, ambulatory surgical center or medical office building may open several years earlier.
