Search UNC.edu
Leadership
Connecting. Challenging. Championing. For more than two centuries, Carolina’s visionaries have steered the University forward by asking for excellence from its students, faculty and staff – and promising the same in return. Meet the leaders who continue this legacy.
Board of Trustees
Strong guidance, responsive stewardship and sound decision-making: The Board of Trustees at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, the flagship campus of the UNC System, provides all these actions as it works to ensure that the University serves the people of North Carolina. The 15-person board advises the UNC Board of Governors on behalf of Carolina and advises the chancellor on issues of campus management and development, advancing excellence that will benefit Carolina’s students, the state and all the member institutions of the UNC System for years to come.
Read more about the Board of Trustees
Chancellor
Lee H. Roberts was named the 13th chancellor for the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill on Aug. 9, 2024, after serving as interim chancellor. Before that, he was the co-founder and managing partner of SharpVue Capital, a North Carolina investment firm that specializes in stewarding institutional funds and growing local economies.
A dedicated public servant, Roberts was state budget director under Republican Gov. Pat McCrory from 2014 to 2016. He is a strong supporter of higher education, serving as a member of the UNC System Board of Governors and as the chair of its budget committee.
For the last five years, he has taught budgeting at Duke University’s Sanford School of Public Policy. He has also served North Carolina through his positions on the State Board of Community Colleges, North Carolina’s Banking Commission, the Board of Visitors at the Sanford School and the Golden LEAF Foundation.
Read more about the chancellor
Provost
Christopher Clemens is the provost and chief academic officer of the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. Clemens came to Carolina in 1998 from Caltech, where he was a Sherman Fairchild Postdoctoral Fellow in Astronomy. Previously, he was a NASA Hubble Fellow at Iowa State University and received his Ph.D. in astronomy from The University of Texas at Austin (1994) and a Bachelor of Science in astrophysics from the University of Oklahoma (1985). He is a dedicated mentor of graduate students and in 2012 received the Faculty Award for Excellence in Doctoral Mentoring.
He leads an active research program in stellar astrophysics, exoplanetary astronomy, and astronomical instrumentation. He led a research team of graduate and undergraduate students to build the facility spectrograph for the 4.1-meter SOAR telescope in Chile, which is operated by Carolina in collaboration with national and international partners.
