Defense Established Programs to Stimulate Competitive Research (DEPSCoR)
The Defense Established Program to Stimulate Competitive Research (DEPSCoR) aims to increase the number of university researchers and improve the capabilities of institutions of higher education in eligible jurisdictions to perform competitive basic research in science & engineering relevant to the DoD mission and reflect national security priorities.
STIX
The Science, Technology, Innovation Exchange (STIX) was originally piloted in 2017, with the intent of communicating the big ideas, positive social impacts, and disruptive capabilities that have resulted from DoD S&T investments.  The event included a series of lightning (up to 12 minute) talks in fields of science, technology, and STEM, that were presented by DoD personnel and DoD sponsored participants, from across the Department and that span careers from graduate students to senior researchers.
I-Corps @ DoD
I-Corps @ DoD is a partnership with the National Science Foundation to provide DoD-funded researchers with training from experienced entrepreneurs in how to commercialize their innovations. BRO is also looking to establish bridges that will allow teams who have completed the training to more seamlessly mature innovations into products that may enter DoD programs of record.
The Laboratory University Collaboration Initiative (LUCI)
The Laboratory University Collaboration Initiative (LUCI) started in 2016 to identify, and competitively fund, three-year basic research collaborations between leading scientists at the DoD laboratories and the Vannevar Bush fellows at US universities in fields of critical interest to the Department.
Bilateral Academic Research Initiative (BARI)
The Bilateral Academic Research Initiative (BARI) focuses on high-risk basic research in science and engineering as a bilateral academic collaboration, and supports academic teams to combine unique skillsets and approaches and provide rapid advances in scientific areas of mutual potential interest to both countries.
Basic Research News
New Breakthrough in Quantum Engineering! Exciting new research by Vannevar Bush Faculty Fellows Profs. Supratik Guha and David Awschalom, along with their collaborators, on "Controlled Spalling of 4H Silicon Carbide for Quantum Technologies," has recently been published in ACS Nano. Story
DOD Awards $43 Million to U.S. Universities to Purchase Equipment for Defense-Related Research The Department of Defense today announced awards totaling $43 million to 112 university researchers under the Defense University Research Instrumentation Program (DURIP). Story
Register Now for the 2025 VBFF Competition Webinar! The Vannevar Bush Faculty Fellowship (VBFF) Program Team is hosting the 2025 Vannevar Bush Faculty competition webinar at 3:00 EST on Friday, August 2nd. Story
